content/blog/what-to-expect-first-session.md, before:

---
title: What to Expect in Your First QHHT Session
date: 2026-01-15
description: A comprehensive guide to what happens during your first QHHT session and how to prepare for this transformative experience.
---

If you're considering your first QHHT session, you might feel a mix of excitement and curiosity about what to expect. It's completely natural to have questions about this profound journey into your consciousness. In this post, I'll walk you through each phase of the session to help you feel prepared and comfortable.

## The Pre-Session Conversation (1-2 hours)

Your QHHT session begins with an in-depth conversation. This isn't just small talk—it's a crucial part of the process. We'll sit down comfortably and discuss what brings you to QHHT, what you're hoping to explore, and any questions you have for your higher self.

I'll ask you to bring a list of questions you'd like answered. These might be about your health, relationships, life purpose, recurring patterns, or anything else that's important to you. There's no limit to what you can ask. The conversation is also when I'll explain exactly how the hypnosis process works and answer any concerns you might have.

This time together helps me understand you and your journey, and it helps you feel comfortable and safe. Building trust and rapport is essential for a successful session.

## The Hypnosis Journey (2-3 hours)

After our conversation, you'll get comfortable—usually lying down in a relaxed position. I'll guide you into the theta brainwave state, which is the deepest level of hypnosis. This is the same natural state you pass through twice every day: just before falling asleep and just before waking up.

Many people worry they won't be "hypnotizable," but the truth is, everyone experiences this state naturally. You'll remain aware and able to speak throughout the session. You're always in control and can never be made to do or say anything against your will.

> "You are always in control during QHHT. The experience is gentle, natural, and deeply relaxing."

Once you're in the deep state, you may experience a range of inner material—memories, symbolic scenes, feelings, or simple knowing. Some people do encounter past-life imagery, while others do not. Your higher self shows you exactly what's relevant to your current life questions and challenges, and every experience is unique and valid.

## Connecting with Your higher self

After the exploration portion, I'll call forth your higher self (also called the Subconscious or SC). This is often the most powerful part of the session. Your higher self has infinite knowledge and understanding about you, your life, and your purpose.

I'll ask your prepared questions, and your higher self will provide answers. The responses are often profound, sometimes surprising, and occasionally humorous. Your higher self loves you unconditionally and wants you to understand and thrive.

If healing is appropriate, your higher self may perform instantaneous healing. I've witnessed remarkable healings of physical conditions, emotional traumas, and spiritual blocks. However, it's important to understand that the higher self only heals when it's appropriate for your growth and journey.

## After the Session

When the hypnosis portion is complete, I'll gently bring you back to full waking consciousness. Many people feel incredibly relaxed, peaceful, and sometimes emotional. We'll take some time to discuss your experience, and I'll share observations from your session.

You'll receive an audio recording of your entire session. This recording is precious—many clients report that listening to it again reveals insights they didn't catch the first time, and the healing continues with each listening.

## How to Prepare

To get the most from your QHHT session, here are some suggestions:

- Write down all your questions in advance. Don't hold back—ask everything you truly want to know.
- Clear your schedule for the entire day. Sessions typically take 4-6 hours, and you won't want to rush.
- Avoid caffeine on the day of your session, as it can interfere with reaching the deep hypnotic state.
- Come with an open mind and heart. Trust the process and your higher self.
- Wear comfortable clothing and plan to be relaxed.

## Final Thoughts

Your first QHHT session is a journey into the deepest parts of yourself—a journey that can provide healing, clarity, and transformation. While every session is unique, one thing is constant: you'll connect with a part of yourself that has infinite wisdom and unconditional love for you.

If you're feeling called to experience QHHT, trust that calling. Your higher self is already guiding you toward this experience, and I'd be honored to facilitate your journey.

Commit message:

Reframe session intro as life history

content/blog/what-to-expect-first-session.md, after:

---
title: What to Expect in Your First QHHT Session
date: 2026-01-15
description: A comprehensive guide to what happens during your first QHHT session and how to prepare for this transformative experience.
---

If you're considering your first QHHT session, you might feel a mix of excitement and curiosity about what to expect. It's completely natural to have questions about this profound journey into your consciousness. In this post, I'll walk you through each phase of the session to help you feel prepared and comfortable.

## The Pre-Session Life History (1+ hours)

Your QHHT session begins with an in-depth life history. This isn't just small talk—it's a crucial part of the process. You'll share your life story from early on to the present, and we'll discuss what brings you to QHHT, what you're hoping to explore, and any questions you have for your higher self.

I'll ask you to bring a list of questions you'd like answered. These might be about your health, relationships, life purpose, recurring patterns, or anything else that's important to you. There's no limit to what you can ask. This time is also when I'll explain exactly how the hypnosis process works and answer any concerns you might have.

This time together helps me understand you and your journey, and it helps you feel comfortable and safe. Building trust and rapport is essential for a successful session. Most conversations run about 2 hours, but they can take longer if needed.

## The Hypnosis Journey (2-3 hours)

After our life-history sharing, you'll get comfortable—usually lying down in a relaxed position. I'll guide you into the theta brainwave state, which is the deepest level of hypnosis. This is the same natural state you pass through twice every day: just before falling asleep and just before waking up. Most people find it easy to relax into this state.

Many people worry they won't be "hypnotizable," but the truth is, everyone experiences this state naturally. You'll remain aware and able to speak throughout the session. You're always in control and can never be made to do or say anything against your will.

> "You are always in control during QHHT. The experience is gentle, natural, and deeply relaxing."

Once you're in the deep state, you may experience a range of inner material—memories, symbolic scenes, feelings, or simple knowing. Some people do encounter past-life imagery, while others do not. Your higher self shows you exactly what's relevant to your current life questions and challenges, and every experience is unique and valid.

## Connecting with Your higher self

After the exploration portion, I'll call forth your higher self (also called the Subconscious or SC). This is often the most powerful part of the session. Your higher self has infinite knowledge and understanding about you, your life, and your purpose.

I'll ask your prepared questions, and your higher self will provide answers. The responses are often profound, sometimes surprising, and occasionally humorous. Your higher self loves you unconditionally and wants you to understand and thrive.

If healing is appropriate, your higher self may perform instantaneous healing. I've witnessed remarkable healings of physical conditions, emotional traumas, and spiritual blocks. However, it's important to understand that the higher self only heals when it's appropriate for your growth and journey.

## After the Session

When the hypnosis portion is complete, I'll gently bring you back to full waking consciousness. Many people feel incredibly relaxed, peaceful, and sometimes emotional. We'll take some time to discuss your experience, and I'll share observations from your session. Sessions can take 4 hours or, in rare cases, up to 10 hours—so please plan for a full day of self-care and avoid scheduling anything afterward.

You'll receive an audio recording of your entire session. This recording is precious—many clients report that listening to it again reveals insights they didn't catch the first time, and the healing continues with each listening.

## How to Prepare

To get the most from your QHHT session, here are some suggestions:

- Write down all your questions in advance. Don't hold back—ask everything you truly want to know.
- Clear your schedule for the entire day. Sessions typically take 4-6 hours, and you won't want to rush.
- Avoid caffeine on the day of your session, as it can interfere with reaching the deep hypnotic state.
- Come with an open mind and heart. Trust the process and your higher self.
- Wear comfortable clothing and plan to be relaxed.

## Final Thoughts

Your first QHHT session is a journey into the deepest parts of yourself—a journey that can provide healing, clarity, and transformation. While every session is unique, one thing is constant: you'll connect with a part of yourself that has infinite wisdom and unconditional love for you.

If you're feeling called to experience QHHT, trust that calling. Your higher self is already guiding you toward this experience, and I'd be honored to facilitate your journey.
